Infra introductory section on hosting options (#1384)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/hosting/requirements.md

---
title: "CHT hosting requirements"
linkTitle: "Requirements"
weight: 1
aliases:  
  - /apps/guides/hosting/requirements
description: >
  Requirements for hosting CHT applications
relatedContent: >
  hosting/3.x/self-hosting
  hosting/3.x/ec2-setup-guide
---

{{% pageinfo %}}
For production CHT deployments, Linux is recommended, with [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/server) the most commonly used. For App Developer Hosting, Linux or macOS may be used. Windows can be used for either, but without recommendation.
{{% /pageinfo %}}

Per the [Kubernetes vs Docker]({{< relref "hosting/kubernetes-vs-docker" >}}) page, CHT Core can be deployed with either Docker or Kubernetes.

**Docker Compose**: 
   * 4.x and 3.x Application developer
   * 3.x Production.  Note: 3.x is [End-of-Life]({{< relref "core/releases#supported-versions" >}})

**Kubernetes**: 
   * 4.x Production

> ## 3.x and 4.x Docker Compose App Developer Hosting
> 
> 
> * 4 GB RAM  / 2 CPU / 8 GB SSD
> * Root Access
> * TLS certificates -  Docker Helper for [3.x]({{< relref "hosting/3.x/app-developer#cht-docker-helper" >}}) or [4.x]({{< relref "hosting/4.x/app-developer#cht-docker-helper-for-4x" >}}) provides these  for you.
> * [Current version](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) of `docker` or current version of [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) both of which include `docker compose`. Note that the older `docker-compose` has been [deprecated in favor of Compose V2](https://www.docker.com/blog/announcing-compose-v2-general-availability/). 
> 

Reviewer: Sorry! this was my mistake - there's a duplicate of this first title and set of bullet points - we should remove one:

```suggestion
```

Be sure to see the `cht-deploy` [script](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/tree/master/scripts/deploy) that leverage the `helm` [application](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

* 1 x HA control-plane nodes: 2 GB RAM  / 2 CPU / 20 GB SSD
* 3 x worker servers: 16 GB RAM  / 8 CPU / 50 GB SSD
* 500GB storage area network (SAN)* - Will host [Persistent Volume Claims](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/)
* Root Access
* Static IP with DNS entry - Kubernetes will use this to provision a valid TLS certificate
* `helm` [application](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
* [K3s](https://docs.k3s.io/)
* [Current version](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) of `docker` (used to bootstrap K3s)

_\* During some upgrades, up to 3x current space used by CouchDB can be needed_

> Minimum Hardware requirements

Reviewer: I can't make the suggested code change because it's includes more content than is in this PR, but we should delete all content between here and the "Required skills" section:

![image](https://github.com/medic/cht-docs/assets/8253488/9434d8fc-0e47-42de-b054-a9c23a46147e)

Author: Solved in commit [5e96555](https://github.com/medic/cht-docs/pull/1384/commits/5e96555f449e583b807ee9b8b645f43d4b53e886)

Finally, confirm you can run the "hello world" docker container: `sudo docker run hello-world`

## Required skills

> In addition to the hosting requirements, system administrators should have a basic understanding of command line interface, Kubernetes, docker, container orchestration, deployment, database commands(CouchDB, Postgres), networking components(SSL, IP addresses, DNS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the hosting requirements, system administrators should have a basic understanding of command line interface, Kubernetes, docker, container orchestration, deployment, databases (CouchDB, Postgres), networking components (TLS, IP addresses, DNS).
```
